.TH flexiblas_list  3 "2013-2022" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library"
.SH NAME
flexiblas_list \- list available backends.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

\fBint flexiblas_list(char *\fIname\fB, size_t \fIlen\fB, int \fIpos\RB);\fR

Link with \fI-lflexiblas\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflexiblas_list\fR returns information about the available FlexiBLAS backends.
If the buffer \fIname\fR is set to \fBNULL\fB the function returns the number of available
backends in the FlexiBLAS configuration files. Otherwise the \fIname\fB parameter needs to
be a character buffer of size \fIlen\fR and the \fIpos\fR arguments specifies the number of
the entry to return. The name of the backend is then copy to the buffer \fIname\fR with a length
of at most \fIlen\fR and the real length of the backend name is returned. The name is copied
into the buffer using \fBstrncpy\fR with a maximum length of \fIlen\fR.

The \fIpos\fR parameter is valid in a range from 0..B-1, where B is the number of backends returned
by a first call to \fBflexiblas_list\fR with a \fBNULL\fR buffer.

If the buffer is not large enough, i.e. the return value equals \fIlen\fR-1, the returned named
can not be used in other FlexiBLAS API calls like \fBflexiblas_load_backend\fR.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, it returns the number of entries in the FlexiBLAS configuration if \fIname==NULL\fR or
the length of the returned name using \fBstrlen\fR.

In case of an error, like an out of range index \fIpos\fB, a negative number is returned.

.SH ERRORS

All negative return values are errors.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following example show how to list all available backends.
.SS Program Source
\&
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

int main ( int argc, char **argv ) {
	char buffer[512];
	int n, pos;

	n = flexiblas_list(NULL, 0, 0);
	for ( pos = 0; pos < n; pos++ ) {
		flexiblas_list(buffer, 512, pos);
		printf("[%2d] %s\\n", pos, buffer);
	}
	return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flexiblas_list_loaded (3),
.BR flexiblas_load_backend (3)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage.

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2022 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

