.TH flexiblas_load_backend_library  3 "2013-2025" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library"
.SH NAME
flexiblas_load_backend_library \- load a backend from a shared library.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

\fBint flexiblas_load_backend_library(const char * \fIlibname\fB );\fR

Link with \fI-lflexiblas\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflexiblas_load_backend_library\fR loads a backend from a shared library. The \fIlibname\fR
parameter specifies either a relative or an absolute path of a shared library containing a
BLAS implementation. Except of some special backends, like the
upcoming CUBLAS backend the backend is initialized during the load.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, it returns the \fBid\fR of the loaded backend which is used within a later call
to \fBflexiblas_switch\fR to change the backend.

If the requested backend can not be found in the configuration, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS

All negative return values are errors and can not be used as an \fBid\fR for \fBflexiblas_switch\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flexiblas_list_loaded (3),
.BR flexiblas_list (3),
.BR flexiblas_load_backend (3),
.BR flexiblas_switch (3)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage.

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2025 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

