.TH flexiblas_switch  3 "Mar. 2017" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library"
.SH NAME
flexiblas_switch \- switch the currently used FlexiBLAS backend.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

\fBint flexiblas_switch(int \fIid\fB );\fR

Link with \fI-lflexiblas\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflexiblas_switch\fR switches the currently used BLAS backend. The \fIid\fR parameter
is the id of the previously loaded backend. This id value is returned by \fBflexiblas_load_backend\fR
or \fBflexiblas_load_backend_library\fR. The function is not thread safe and switching the backend
inside a threaded environment can cause problems if there is a BLAS call running at the same time.

The special \fIid\fR 0 resets the backend to the default backend which is loaded at the initialization before
the program starts.


.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, it returns zero.

.SH ERRORS

All negative return values are errors. This happens if the \fIid\fR is out of range.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following example loads the NETLIB BLAS backend and switches to it.
.SS Program Source
\&
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

int main ( int argc, char **argv ) {
	int netlib_id;

	netlib_id = flexiblas_load_backend("NETLIB");
	if ( netlib_id < 0 ) {
		fprintf(stderr, "Failed to load the NETLIB backend.\\n");
		return -1;
	}
	/* Switch to the NETLIB backend */
	flexiblas_switch(netlib_id);

	/* DGEMM performed with the NETLIB backend. */
	dgemm_(.....);

	return 0;
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flexiblas_load_backend_library (3),
.BR flexiblas_load_backend (3)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage.

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2020 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

