.TH flexiblas_list_loaded  3 "2013-2022" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library"
.SH NAME
flexiblas_list_loaded \- list all loaded backends.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

\fBint flexiblas_list_loaded(char *\fIname\fB, size_t \fIlen\fB, int \fIpos\fB);\fR

Link with \fI-lflexiblas\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflexiblas_list_loaded\fR returns information about all loaded  FlexiBLAS backends.
If the buffer \fIname\fR is set to \fBNULL\fB the function returns the number of loaded
backends. Otherwise the \fIname\fB parameter needs to
be a character buffer of size \fIlen\fR and the \fIpos\fR arguments specifies the number of
the entry to return. The name of the backend is then copy to the buffer \fIname\fR with a length
of at most \fIlen\fR and the real length of the backend name is returned. The name is copied
into the buffer using \fBstrncpy\fR with a maximum length of \fIlen\fR.

The \fIpos\fR parameter is valid in a range from 0..B-1, where B is the number of backends returned
by a first call to \fBflexiblas_list_loaded\fR with a \fBNULL\fR buffer.

If the buffer is not large enough, i.e. the return value equals \fIlen\fR-1, the returned named
can not be used in other FlexiBLAS API calls like \fBflexiblas_load_backend\fR.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, it returns the number of loaded backends if \fIname==NULL\fR or
the length of the returned name using \fBstrlen\fR.

In case of an error, like an out of range index \fIpos\fB, a negative number is returned.

.SH ERRORS

All negative return values are errors.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following example show how to list all loaded backends.
.SS Program Source
\&
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

int main ( int argc, char **argv ) {
	char buffer[512];
	int n, pos;

	n = flexiblas_list_loaded(NULL, 0, 0);
	for ( pos = 0; pos < n; pos++ ) {
		flexiblas_list_loaded(buffer, 512, pos);
		printf("[%2d] %s\\n", pos, buffer);
	}
	return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flexiblas_list (3),
.BR flexiblas_load_backend (3)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage.

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2022 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

