.TH flexiblas_load_backend  3 "Nov. 2015" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library" 
.SH NAME
flexiblas_load_backend \- load a backend from the FlexiBLAS configuration. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>

\fBint flexiblas_load_backend(const char * \fIname\fB );\fR

Link with \fI-lflexiblas\fR. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflexiblas_load_backend\fR loads a backend from the FlexiBLAS configuration. The \fIname\fR
parameter specifies the name of the backend inside the configuration. The available backends
can be access via \fBflexiblas_list\fR. Except of some special backends, like the 
upcoming CUBLAS backend the backend is initialized during the load. The name of the backend 
is not case sensitive. 


.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, it returns the \fBid\fR of the loaded backend which is used within a later call 
to \fBflexiblas_switch\fR to change the backend. 

If the requested backend can not be found in the configuration, an error is returned. 

.SH ERRORS

All negative return values are errors and can not be used as an \fBid\fR for \fBflexiblas_switch\fR. 

.SH SEE ALSO 
.BR flexiblas_list_loaded (3), 
.BR flexiblas_list (3), 
.BR flexiblas_load_backend_library (3), 
.BR flexiblas_switch (3) 
	
.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage. 

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS 
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak. 
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

