.TH flexiblas-api 7 "Mar. 2017" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library" 
.SH NAME
flexiblas-api \- Overview about the FlexiBLAS API 

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <flexiblas/flexiblas_api.h>\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The FlexiBLAS library provides an additional API beside the BLAS interface. This interface
can be used to switch the number of threads during the runtime or even completely change the 
used backend. The functions are categorized into three sections: 
.SS Information Functions 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_getversion\fR (3), Version information
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_print_loaded_backends\fR (3), Print information about loaded backends. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_print_avail_backends\fR (3), Print information about the available backends. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_print_current_backend\fR (3), Print the currently loaded backend. 

.SS Backend Management Functions 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_list\fR (3), Retrieve a list of all available backends. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_list_loaded\fR (3), Retrieve a list of all loaded backends. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_load_backend\fR (3), Load a backends from the FlexiBLAS configuration. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_load_backend_library\fR (3), Load a backends from a shared library. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_switch\fR (3), Switch to a previously loaded backend. 
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_current_backend\fR (3), Return the name of the currently loaded backend. 

.SS Interfaces Into The Backend
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_set_num_threads\fR (3), Change the number of threads in the backend used for computation.  
.IP \- 3 
\fBflexiblas_get_num_threads\fR (3), Get the number of threads in the backend used for computation.  


.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage. 

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>

.SH AUTHORS 
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak 

.SH SEE ALSO 
.nf
  M. Koehler and J. Saak, FlexiBLAS - A flexible BLAS library with runtime exchangeable backends,
  LAPACK Working Note 284, 2013
.fi

and 
.BR flexiblas (1) 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

