.TH flexiblas 1 "2013-2020" "M. Koehler" "The FlexiBLAS Library"
.SH NAME
flexiblas \- the FlexiBLAS administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
flexiblas [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand\-options\fR]

flexiblas64 [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand\-options\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The flexiblas tool is a command line utility shipped with the FlexiBLAS
library. It is used to configure the global and the local flexiblasrc
file. Its main purpose it selecting the default BLAS backend used with
FlexiBLAS and other runtime specific options. FlexiBLAS uses up to four locations to
search for its configuration, a system-wide configuration file, a per-user configuration
file, a per-host configuration file, and one configuration file defined by an environment
variable \fBFLEXIBLAS_CONFIG\fR. The configuration files are evaluated in this order and
a later loaded one overwrites the settings of a previously loaded one.

The \fBflexiblas64\fR tool is used for the 64-bit integer variant of FlexiBLAS.

Furthermore, it can be used to add or remove BLAS backends form
the configuration files.

.SS Hooks
FlexiBLAS supports so called hooks to modify/extent/change the behavior of BLAS and
LAPACK functions. This can be used for profiling, automatic offloadlind, and other
debuging purposes. The hooks are configured either via the \fBFLEXIBLAS_HOOK\fR environment
variable or the \fBflexiblas\fR tool. The \fBFLEXIBLAS_HOOK\fR variable contains
a colon separate list of hooks or shared libraries containing the hook. The hooks
are loaded in the order they are specified. If the \fIhook_enabled\fR setting
in a configuration file is set but empty all hooks are disabled for this configuration file.
In this way the per host setting can disable the user settings. Using the \fBhook disableall\fR
command the \fIhook_enabled\fR entry is removed and thus no hook settings are in the
configuration.

.SS Configuration Priority
FlexiBLAS uses serveral configuration paths to select the BLAS backend or enable and disable
other functionality. The configuration is read in the following order, thereby previous read
information is overwritten. That means that last read configuration has the highest priority.

\fB1.\fR \fI/etc/flexiblasrc\fR - The system wide configuration file, hooks can not be configured here.

\fB2.\fR \fI/etc/flexiblasrc.d/*.conf\fR - Additional system wide configurations, read only.

\fB3.\fR \fI${HOME}/flexiblasrc\fR - The user's configuration file.

\fB4.\fR \fI${HOME}/flexiblasrc.$(hostname)\fR - The user's configuration file on a host, useful for NFS homedirectories.

\fB5.\fR \fIFLEXIBLAS_CONFIG\fR - The environment variable is used to specified a separate configuration file, e.g. per project.

\fB6.\fR \fIFLEXIBLAS\fR, \fIFLEXIBLAS_HOOK\fR - Select a BLAS implementation or a hook without changing the config.

.SS 64-bit Integers
If FlexiBLAS is compiled with 64 bit intergers, \fIflexiblas\fR is replaced by \fIflexiblas64\fR and \fIFLEXIBLAS\fR
is replaced by \fIFLEXIBLAS64\fR in all names of configuration files, environment variable, etc.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Commands
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Print information about the tool and its usage.
.TP
\fBprint\fR
Print the whole BLAS related configuration including search paths, default settings, etc.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all available BLAS libraries from the configuration files.
.TP
\fBdefault \fIBLASNAME\fR
Sets the default BLAS backend in the selected configuration file.
.TP
\fBdefault\fR
Removes the default setting from the selected configuration file.
.TP
\fBadd\fR \fIBLASNAME sharedlibrary.so ["comment string"]\fR
Add a new BLAS backend called "\fIBLASNAME\fR" to the selected configuration file. This will create a section like
.nf

  [BLASNAME]
  library=sharedlibrary.so
  comment="comment string"

.fi
in the selected configuration file. The \fIcomment string\fR is optional.
.TP
\fBremove \fINAME\fR
Remove a BLAS backed called "NAME" from the selected configuration file.
.TP
\fBset \fIproperty [value]\fR
Set a property in the configuration file. If the value is not given the property is reset to its default. The available properties
are listed below.

.SS Hook commands:
Hooks are additional plugins that integrate in the call of a BLAS or LAPACK function. They are used for debugging or profiling purpose.

.TP
\fBhook list\fR
List all available hooks. The hooks are automatically found in the FlexiBLAS library directories.
.TP
\fBhook show\fR \fIhook-name\fR
Show details about a specific hook. This includes the name, the authors, a short description, and the list of configurable options.
.TP
\fBhook enable\fR \fIhook-name\fR
Enable a hook. If more than one hook is enabled they are executed in the order they got enabled.
.TP
\fBhook disable\fR \fIhook-name\fR
Disable a hook.
.TP
\fBhook disableall\fR
Disable all hooks in a configuration and remove the setting from the configuration. This is necessary if, i.e., hooks are enabled in the user
configuration and the host configuration file has an empty \fIhook_enabled \fRfield. In this case the FlexiBLAS does not use a hook since the host
configuration overwrites the user configuration. Then \fBhook disableall\fR is used to remove the \fIhook_enabled\fR from the host configuration.
.TP
\fBhook enabled\fR
Show all enabled hooks in the configuration files.
.TP
\fBhook active\fR
Show the currently active hooks and from which configuration file they are loaded.
.TP
\fBhook set\fR \fIhook-name\fR \fIoption-name\fR \fIvalue\fR
Set an option for a hook to the given value. All available options for a hook can be shown with the \fBhook show\fR command.
\Bhook unset\fR \fIhook-name\fR \fIoption-name\fR
Unset an option for a hook.

.SS General Options:
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR
Edit the user's flexiblasrc configuration (default options, except of executing as root).
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-global\fR
Edit the global flexiblasrc configuration (default in case of executing as root).
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR
Edit the host configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-environment\fR
Edit the configuration file given by the environment variable \fIFLEXIBLAS_CONFIG\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pipe\fR
Make the output of some commands, like \fBlist\fR pipe compatible to use them in scripts.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print this information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the versionformation and exit.

.SS Properties
.TP
\fBverbose \fIinteger\fR
Change the verbosity level of FlexiBLAS. The default verbosity level is \fB0\fR which only displays critical errors. If
a level larger than \fB\fR is specified, FlexiBLAS will produce many debug information on \fIstderr\fR.
.TP
\fBnolapack \fIinteger\fR
If the value is non zero, FlexiBLAS does not load the LAPACK functions from the backend. That means that only
the internal LAPACK routines are used.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/etc/flexiblasrc\fR
System-wide FlexiBLAS configuration file.
.TP
\fI/etc/flexiblasrc.d/*.conf\fR
Additional system-wide configuration files. Read-only, Installed by BLAS library to be included in FlexiBLAS.
.TP
\fI~/.flexiblasrc\fR
User FlexiBLAS configuration file.
.TP
\fI~/.flexiblasrc.$(hostname)\fR
User FlexiBLAS configuration file for a specific host.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
\fIFLEXIBLAS_CONFIG\fR
Using the \fBFLEXIBLAS_CONFIG\fR environment variable an additional configuration can be set. This can be used
for per-project settings.
.TP
\fIFLEXIBLAS\fR
Select a BLAS implementation ignoring the configuration settings. If the content of the variable is a path to a
shared object containing a BLAS library, this is used as BLAS implementation. It is not required that this BLAS
library is configured in any of the configuration files.
.TP
\fIFLEXIBLAS_HOOK\fR
The FLEXIBLAS_HOOK variable contains a colon separated list of hooks which should be loaded. If a hook is a path
to a shared object instead of a name of an available hook, FlexiBLAS tries to  load this library as a hook,
.TP
\fIFLEXIBLAS_LIBRARY_PATH\fR
The FLEXIBLAS_LIBRARY_PATH variable contains a colon separated list of addtional search paths for FlexiBLAS.
The paths are used to find BLAS implementations and hooks.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
The current information about the developers and reporting bugs can be found on the FlexiBLAS homepage.

FlexiBLAS Homepage: <http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/flexiblas>
.SH AUTHORS
 Martin Koehler, Jens Saak
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
 M. Koehler and J. Saak, FlexiBLAS - A flexible BLAS library with runtime exchangeable backends,
 LAPACK Working Note 284, 2013
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013-2020 Martin Koehler
.SH LICENSE
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

